## Basics
The physical components of MDs and PCs, such as the Central Processing Unit (CPU), Hard Disk Drive (HDD), Random-Access Memory (RAM) devices, Wi-Fi chips (which are especially common in laptops and mobile devices) and graphics cards, are referred to as the computer's **hardware**. While the data contained on the computer's HDD, including the various programs that users use to interact with the computer, is referred to as **software**. Both MDs and PCs have installed on them a very basic, yet also very important piece of software known as an **operating system** (**OS**). The OS is what coordinates all communication between the computer's hardware and its software. It is this piece of software that this post is concerned with, specificially operating systems that run on PCs. The single most important component to any operating system is its **kernel**, which is the most basic part of the OS. Without it communication with the hardware would be impossible.

It is also important to understand that computer programs are created from **source code**, which is written in a special type of language (a **programming language**), analogously to how human languages are used to construct the content of books and letters. Programming languages are designed to be both human- and machine-readable, so that they can be easily written and understood by humans, but also easily interpreted and executed by the processors of computers. One way that programs can be classed is by the availability of their source code to the general public. Open-source programs (or **open-source software** or **OSS**) have their source code released publically and freely, so that anyone can access their source code, learn from it, teach with it, modify and expand on it, and develop new programs from it. These rights are provided by various open-source software licenses, such as the Apache License, BSD Licenses, GNU General Public License (GPL), MIT License, *etc.* Closed-source programs do not afford users these rights and rather the source code is proprietary information, that is controlled by the copyright holder (usually the company that develops said program).
