## A Brief History of Unix
The story of Unix and Unix-like operating systems started in the 1970s at Bell Labs in New Jersey, with **Research Unix** (also known as AT&T Unix) being developed by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie and other early Unix pioneers. Dennis Ritchie is also noted for developing the C programming language, which was used as the primary programming language that Research Unix was written in. Later, in the late 1970s, on the other side of the U.S., at the University of California, Berkeley, work began on another version of Unix that borrowed much of Research Unix's codebase, the **Berkeley Software Distribution**, or **BSD** for short. Among BSD's developers was Bill Joy, who created the popular Vi text editor. BSD and Research Unix were both proprietary-licensed and the last version of Research Unix was released in 1989 while the last version of BSD was released in 1995. Later versions of BSD were released under the BSD License, which is a FOSS License.

In 1983 Richard Stallman founded the **GNU Project**, which had the stated goal of creating an open-source Unix-like operating system known as **GNU** (pronounced like juh-new), which itself is a recursive acronym for *GNU is not Unix*. The GNU Project also has its own set of open-source software licenses, which share the suffix "GPL". The most widely-used GNU license is the GNU General Public License (or GPL). By the beginning of the 1990s the GNU system was almost ready to be publically-released, except its kernel (GNU Hurd) was not yet ready for everyday use.

In 1991, however, Linus Torvalds, a then 21-year-old computer science student published his own GPL-licensed Unix kernel called the **Linux kernel**. This kernel was originally intended for personal use by Torvalds on his own PC, but it has since become the most widely-used operating system kernel in the world. Torvalds did not provide the other basic components to a Unix system, so when people started making &#42;nix systems with his kernel, they usually used the programs provided by the GNU Project. This is why the GNU Project prefers the terminology GNU/Linux when refer to Linux operating systems, as it acknowledges the contribution from GNU Project developers and not just Torvalds' contribution. While the GNU Project and Torvalds, collectively, provided most of the tools required to make a &#42;nix system, some essential components were still missing and this is why Linux is not a single operating system but rather a large and diverse family of &#42;nix operating systems. Individual members of this family are referred to as **Linux distributions** (acronym: **LDs**; or **GNU/Linux distributions**).

Before BSD's official development ceased, and after its source code was made open-source a few free forks were developed of which FreeBSD, NetBSD and OpenBSD are the most notable ones that are still under active development.
